Natural history collections are important artifacts that provide pivotal information on the past, present, and future of our natural world. They document species ecology and distribution, changes in aspects of phenotypes, and aid in conservation initiatives. Collections have tremendous value in understanding and documenting our natural and cultural world. Yet their history, and the practice of scientific collecting, is muddled with bias, controversy, and colonial practices. Through discussion and practice, we will explore the science and art of scientific collecting, preparing, and caring for specimens (plant and animal). We will discuss the history of scientific collections, and collection practices, and consider their role and value. We will visit natural history museums, their collections, and the curators that care for them. Thus, there are two required field trips, including one overnight. We will also practice the art of specimen preparation and care, learning different preparation and cataloging techniques. This class is open to anyone with any interest or curiosity about natural history museums, collections or scientific collecting. It is recommended for students interested in museology techniques or those interested in pursuing careers in museum studies. Assessments include written responses to weekly prompts, discussion participation, written essays, and a term project.



This is a museum and natural history collection focused class. We discuss the history of scientific collections, and collection practices, and consider their role and value. We read old field journals, essays, peer-review literature, and popular articles. We read, alot. We visit natural history museums, their collections, and the curators that care for them. We have several field trips throughout the term, including a required two-night overnight to Boston. Finally, we practice the art of specimen preparation and care, learning different preparation and cataloging techniques. This includes working directly with our Dorr Museum of Natural History and the Herbarium. Students are required to complete at least ten hours of curatorial work outside of class.

 
I have attached last year's syllabus to assist with understanding the objectives of the course and the assessments (a few may change this winter). The schedule will not be the same this year, but I hope this provides information that is helpful. The class enrollment is capped due to the limitations of the number of individuals allowed in some collections we visit. While this class is open to anyone with any interest or curiosity about natural history museums or scientific collecting, it is recommended for students interested in museology techniques or those interested in pursuing careers in museum studies, and it is particularly aimed at first and second year students to allow them to build on these experiences.